## Part 1 DESCRIPTION
 
This project aims to help users to Assess COVID-19's Impact on US Restaurants Through Yelp Data.
We mainly investigate on following two areas: 
1.Restaurants close ratios by location, price, or rating 
2 the change of customer review topic and review sentiment before and after covid.
We obtained over 200k raw data of the small business details and special services (e.g., delivery/takeout enabled) offered during COVID-19 and 8M customer reviews from Yelp’s public sources. 
We combined with most recent yelp data by API scraping to evaluate the influence on close ratio. 
Utilize NLTK and LDA model, we uncover how review topic and sentiment change during covid.
Detailed interactive visualization and summary is hosted in tableau public as following link:
https://public.tableau.com/profile/yaozhen1140#!/vizhome/Team018AssessCOVID-19ImpactonUSRestaurants_ThroughYelpDatav3/Story1?publish=yes 
   

## Part 2 INSTALLATION

We use python to analyze yelp data and train model. So, choose an python environment before installation. Recommend Anaconda
    1. Install requirement packages as listed in the requirement.txt
    2. Download the data from the link as following: https://www.yelp.com/dataset/download.download and export json fileS  into CODE\\data cleaning\\data folder. You may need to register on yelp website. 
 	we also used other files to clean data. Those files are already located in \\CODE\\data cleaning
	state.csv is used to limit restaurant in us.
	yelp_restaurant_cat.txt is used to select restaurant industry from yelp data.
    3. Run following file to clean and aggregate data
        yelp data processing review.ipynb to get the review data for nlp analysis. 
        yelp data processing covid+business.ipynb to get the business data for close ratio analysis
        yelp data processing covid+business on 2021.1 data.ipynb  to get the 2021.1 data for nlp analysis
    4. Run Close_ratio.ipynb in close ratio folder. 
    	This part includes web scripting API provided by yelp. You also need to register your application information in yelp to get API key. The export file is called us_open_restuant_situation.csv and will be located in close ratio folder. That is the file which we used for close ratio visualization in tableau. 
    5. Run Sentiment Analysis-Before After Covid.py. The 2 source files are 'merge_after_covid.csv' and 'merge_before_covid.csv' which are generated by the yelp data processing review.ipynb.
    	The output file is '04192021_output.csv', which we used for sentiment analysis in tableau
    6. For visualization of the project, it is handled inside of the Tableau. You can find the detailed design logic in the tableau repository as mentioned above
    
    
## Part 2 EXECUTION
The visualization is host on tableau. You can run the application based on the tableau link above.
